# SINGLE-CELL RNA-SEQ ANALYSIS OF AN LGR6+ EPIDERMAL STEM CELL LINEAGE-TRACED TISSUE EXPANSION MODEL
Data is available upon inquiry. email: clyu4@jhu.edu 
## Abstract
Mechanical input is a key element for guiding cell behavior in mammalian skin and regulating dermal development (Romani et al., 2020). The molecular mechanism underlying this instructive role has been investigated extensively. However, most studies that have examined the association between mechanical forces and tissue development have been restricted to in vitro systems. Some experiments have probed in vivo models, but our understanding of the driving mechanism and cellular heterogeneity remains limited. To obtain a comprehensive cellular survey of how mechanical forces drive skin growth, here, we designed an in vivo lineage-traced system with a single-cell RNA-seq approach that allows us to dissect the process at single-cell resolution. With the reconstructed gene expression programs, we identified the common transcriptional pattern and the physiologic process implicated in the expansion state of the epidermis. We show that the epidermal compartment responds quite heterogeneously to stretch and that Lgr6 cells compose the lineage that commits to new skin generation. Further exploration of gene expression level and trajectory inference confirm that the key regulator YAP1 suppresses the Hippo pathway, which normally constrains tissue growth, and activates downstream cell proliferation and differentiation pathways. Our study provides a systematic overview of epidermal cellular change on the single-cell level, potentially revealing rich information for therapeutic manipulation.
